Summaries of testing earthquake predictions 


Intro
Prediction of earthquakes has existed for long. 
Even non-seismic methods have been in use for long
Even experts in geophysics do not agree on possibilities of earthquake prediction 
Earthquake predictions have been assessed using ideas from statistical hypothesis testing: a test statistic is compared to its distribution under a null hypothesis
Stochastic models for earthquake occurrence do not seem like a good foundation for evaluating earthquake predictions, especially predictions of large earthquakes.

Phenomenology of earthquakes
An earthquake catalog is a list of the estimated locations, times, and magnitudes of earthquakes found by a given authority, such as the U.S. Geological Survey.
All large earthquakes occur within a few tens of kilometres of the surface.
Indeed, most large earthquakes occur in a relatively narrow band around the Pacific Ocean, the “ring of fire.”
Earthquakes also cluster in time: large earthquakes invariably have aftershocks; some have foreshocks;
The terms “foreshock” and “after- shock” are often taken to imply a causal connection to a main shock.
The most common stochastic model for seismicity takes the epicenters and times of shocks above some threshold magnitude to be a realization of a spatially inhomogeneous but temporally homogeneous Poisson process.

Here are two categories of earthquake predictions: deterministic or binary predictions and probabilistic predictions.





Test of earthquake predictions 
 
 
The fraction of the study volume covered by alarms is v = VA/V .

Several stochastic models for seismicity are common for testing predictions.
1.	Some studies model seismicity by a homogeneous Poisson process with intensity equal to the mean historical rate in the study region 
2.	Some studies use a spatially heterogeneous but temporally homogeneous Poisson process model, with rate in the spatial region Rj equal to the historical rate j 
3.	Some studies condition on the observed locations of past events, but model the times of the events as Poisson or uniform 
4.	Some studies condition on the observed locations and the observed times, but model the times as exchangeable 
Another approach to testing is to compare the success rate of predictions with the (theoretical or empirical) success rate of random predictions that do not use any seismic information

Jackson Method 
eviews methods for testing deterministic and probabilistic predictions. The approach to testing deterministic predictions is based on a probability distribution for the number of successful predictions, in turn derived from a null hypothesis that specifies P(Sj = 1), j = 1,...,A.
Advocate a likelihood-ratio test for evaluating probabilistic forecasts.

Cosnole Method 
Addresses deterministic predictions and probabilistic forecasts. His discussion of deterministic predictions includes several statistics for comparing alternative sets of predictions.
For Console, the null hypothesis is that seismicity has a Poisson distribution. His test rejects the null hypothesis if more events occur during alarms than are expected on the assumption that seismicity has a homogeneous Poisson distribution with true rate equal to the observed rate.




Contributers: 
Sung Hoon Choi
(Jinsoo will upload the rest soon!)






